Okay.
So we still have one test warning in our terminal.
And this is actually a pretty curious one because you can see it's coming from the main NAV tests,
which are mounting the main nav component.
But here's where things get really interesting.
If I open up my main nav component and I scroll down, you'll notice we're not actually using the font
awesome icon anywhere in this component.
Right.
So what is going on?
Well, let me go ahead and open up my main nav tests on the right hand side and scroll to the top.
And you can see here we are indeed mounting the main nav component in every test.
Right.
And nowhere are we using the font awesome icon, but the tests are still complaining.
So let me explain what's going on here.
And in order to do so, we need to talk about the mount function that we've been using so far.
There's actually two options available to us from view test utils regarding how we can mount a component.
The first is this mount function, and the second option is a shallow mount function.
Let's start with going into more detail about what Mount does.
The mount function renders a component or mounts a component, but it also goes ahead and mounts all
of its children.
And if the children has children, it's going to mount all of those as well.
So it's trying to simulate the component, the way it's supposed to be used in the real world, in the
browser.
So what's actually going on here is our main NAV is rendering a sub nav right here on line 43 and our
sub nav component is the one that is rendering a awesome icon component.
So because the mount function is rendering the entire component hierarchy, the entire component tree,
which means everything main nav has and all of its children and all of its grandchildren and great grandchildren,
no matter how many level down levels down it goes, the mount function will render the entire thing
using the original component code.
When we are rendering the sub nav, we are rendering the global font awesome icon registered component
and thus our tests once again say, I don't know what that is.
So that brings up an interesting question, which is how do we solve this problem?
And the first thought that you may have is, well, can we use the strategy from the previous lesson?
Can we stub out the font awesome icon component?
And the answer is, I'm sure we can, but I would ask whether that is the best solution, because imagine
that we use the code here to stub out the font.
Awesome icon and other developer may look at this file and say okay, you're stubbing out this font
awesome icon, but I'm not seeing it anywhere here in this May.
Now where is it coming from?
And of course, they could do some extra digging and discover in a sub nav component.
But imagine that our main nav is rendering six or seven different child components.
Right?
At that point, you'd have to do a lot more digging to discover where that error is coming from.
And I'd argue we don't really care, at least for the purposes of this test right now.
We don't really care about the sub nav component and what its internal details are.
And when I say internal details, I mean what is its template?
We care that our main NAV renders a component called sub nav right here because there is some conditional
logic attached to it.
But we don't care about the details of what sub nav includes.
Right.
So I would argue that it'd be great if our tests didn't care at all about the fun awesome icon and didn't
care at all about what the sub nav was doing.
So what we can say is, well, could we stub out the sub nav component instead?
Right.
Would that work?
And I would argue it would, but it would be a little bit more work for us to manually have to.
Hard code that object that says global subs find the sub nav component and stub it out.
And because this is such a common kind of test, the view test util library gives us a second function
called shallow mount.
And what shallow mount does is it automatically stubs out all of your child components.
So if we use the shallow mount function and we mount a main nav, it's going to go through this code
right here on the left and it's going to say, Oh, you have another component being used here, sub
nav, I'm going to automatically replace it with something fake.
And if we have six other child components, whatever they are, it's similarly going to do that as well.
And we don't have to explicitly write out those component names and we don't have to come up with that
complex configuration object.
We can automatically have view and the test details stub them out for us.
So just very quickly, I want to talk about the advantages and the disadvantages of that approach.
The advantages are hopefully there are apparent by now is that we decouple or separate the parent component
from all of its children, which means that mistakes or errors or warnings that happen in the children
will not bubble up to the parent.
In this case, this is a perfect example.
We're seeing a warning here that's not actually.
Coming from May nav, it's coming from sub nav and that's a hard issue to debug.
And it gets even more complicated as our component grows.
If we simply stub out all of our child components, we create that separation and we can test may NAV
in a more unit test perspective, just focused and isolated on just this component without caring about
all of these other components that it needs to render and their internal details.
The disadvantage of this approach, because you're going to hear multiple opinions, is that we are
testing this component in a way that's not reflective of the real world.
In the real world.
The main NAV component is going to render the sub nav component for the user and now we are replacing
sub nav with something fake a stub, a not real version of that thing.
Right.
So it could be that our tests are testing something that isn't reflective of the real world and our
tests may pass, but in the real world, that thing, that functionality, that feature may still be
breaking because we're not testing all of these pieces as they work in combination in tandem with one
another.
We have split them up.
We have isolated them so we can test may now by itself so that our strengths and weaknesses to this
approach and I do want to make sure you are aware of both them so you can speak about it.
Whenever somebody asks you about your testing preferences or why you followed a certain approach in
a code change.
So for now, what I propose we do is indeed replace our mount function calls here with shallow mount,
and that again is going to render all of this code, but not the sub nav explicitly.
It's going to stub it out and that will make this warning go away.
So right here, instead of importing mount, I'm going to import an alternative function called Shallow
Mount and it's going to work the exact same way.
Instead of writing mount here, I'm simply going to write shallow mount.
All right, lowercase s capital.
And we similarly give it a component to mount.
It's going to do the same thing.
So I'm going to replace Mount here.
I'm going to replace Mount here anywhere where we are using Mount.
And by the way, in the real world, I have seen it sync a single test file where developers combine
both of these options.
Right.
Depending on what you're searching for, depending on what you're testing for.
It's totally fine to combine.
You have to think about really what you care about and what tests give you comfort that the software
is working as it's supposed to.
So for the purposes of what we're testing here, if we look here, we care about the company name being
displayed, the menu items, the user being logged out, being shown, the log in button and the profile
image.
None of these tests care about the sub nav, right?
None of them right now care about the sub.
So I'm totally fine.
Shallow, mounting it to not worry about the sub.
Now, for the purposes of these tests, if there is another test where I do care about the sub nav,
then in that test I can fully mount may nav and then stub out my font.
Awesome icon in that test.
Right.
And that will communicate to a reader that that concept matters for that test specifically.
So I have replaced all of my calls here.
So if I save this file and we rerun all of our tests, we're going to see everything passes right here,
and we're going to see a fully passing test suite with no warnings.
One final detail to close this lesson off is shallow amount may actually lead to faster tests because
instead of having to render the entire component tree or hierarchy the view test, utils knows to just
swap a component when it sees it with something else.
Right now our components are pretty small and lightweight, so you're probably not going to see that
tangible difference play out.
But it sometimes does make a difference.
The less you render, obviously, the the more that you render just one component rather than all of
its children and grandchildren, the smaller the scope, and thus, probably the quicker that the test
utils can mount that component and test it.
Right.
That's another thing worth noting.
That's really all there is to cover in this lesson.
We talked about the differences between the mount and the shallow mount functions from our view test
utils library.
The mount function fully renders the component tree, all of its children and all of their specific
implementation details, including their actual templates, right, and all of their view configuration
objects, etc..
In comparison, the shallow mount function only mounts the component that you care about that you pass
in as the first argument, and whenever it sees a child component being rendered, it swaps it out.
It replaces it with something else, not the real world implementation, but a substitute.
And we call that substitute the setup.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.